## Welcome to Titan Robotics Club

The Titan Robotics Club is a middle and high school robotics program at the International School in Bellevue, Washington. We aim to spread awareness and raise interest within our school and our community about robotics and the programs of FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology). As part of the annual FIRST Robotics Competition, FIRST Tech Challenge and FIRST Lego League, our team of around 100 students work with field professionals and adult mentors to earn valuable life experience with robotics, technology and science. You can learn more about us at our [official website](http://www.titanrobotics.com).

### History of our Open Source Projects on GitHub

Titan Robotics Club (TRC) was started in 2001 competing in the FIRST Robotics Competition (FRC). Staring in the FRC season 2007-2008, the Club decided to develop the Titan Robotics Framework Library (TrcLib) and to make the library open source. At the time, we were using Mercurial as our source control and was hosting the source code on our own Linux server. In 2010, we switched to use Git as our source control and have moved all our repositories to GitHub to free ourselves from maintaining our own source control server. With over a decade of development, TrcLib has become a feature rich Robotics Library. At the beginning, the library was written in C for FRC. In 2009, the Club added the FIRST Tech Challenge program (FTC). TrcLib was then ported to RobotC, the programming language for the LEGO Mindstorm platform used by FTC. In 2015, with the introduction of the Android platform in FTC, the Club switched to use Java as the programming language for both FTC and FRC. TrcLib was then rewritten in Java so that the majority of the Library code can be shared between FTC and FRC. At the time of writing (2021), TrcLib has grown to over 20,000 lines of code with over 12,000 lines shared between FTC and FRC. Aside from the repositories of the FTC and FRC competition seasons, we also created many useful projects on GitHub. In 2016, we created the FtcSamples repositories with a lot of sample code helping the FTC teams who decided to use our TrcLib for FTC. This enables rookie teams to write relatively advanced code without too much effort. With that, we also created JavaDoc for TrcLib which can be found [here](https://trc492.github.io/FtcJavaDoc/). The recent addition of the FtcTemplate repository enables FTC teams to quickly create their own code repository for the new season with the latest copy of TrcLib as well as the FTC SDK for the season. In the FtcTemplate repository, it comes with basic robot code for a mecanum drive base robot with ready to drive TeleOp code. The FtcTemplate repository can be found [here](https://github.com/trc492/FtcTemplate).
