# Driving FTC Mecanum Drive Base in TeleOp
Follow the instructions below to modify the FTC Template code for your mecanum robot.
1. In RobotParams.java, update the string constants **HWNAME_xxDRIVE_MOTOR** corresponding to the hardware names of the four driving wheel motors in your robot config.
1. Compile the code and deploy it to the robot.
1. Place your robot on a stand so that the wheels can be free running without the robot running away from you. When looking down on the robot, the mecanum wheel rollers should form an X. If not, switch the mecanum wheels around until they form an X.
1. On the Driver Station, activate your robot configuration.
1. On the Driver Station, select a TeleOp Opmode called FtcTest. Press the **Init** button to initialize the opmode. Press the D-pad down button on your driver gamepad until the "Test" shown on the Driver Station is on "Drive motors test". Press the D-pad right button to select the test. Then press the **Play** button on the Driver Station to start the opmode. This test will run each of the four driving wheels one after the other for 5 seconds each in the sequence of Left Front, Right Front, Left Back and Right Back. Note the rotation direction of each wheel and make sure they would have run the robot in the forward direction if the robot were placed on the ground. If any of the wheels are rotating in the wrong direction, correct them in RobotParams.java. Change **xxDRIVE_INVERTED** from true to false or vice versa to reverse the corresponding driving wheels until the test shows all four wheels rotating in the correct direction.

That's it. Your robot is now ready to be driven in TeleOp mode. On the Driver Station, select the **FtcTeleOp** Opmode. Press the **Init** button to initialize the opmode and press the **Play** button to start it. The default drive mode is "Arcade Mode". It means the left stick on the driver gamepad controls the X and Y direction of the robot. The X-axis of the right stick controls the rotation. If you prefer, you can change the drive mode to "Holonomic Mode". In this mode, the Y-axis of the left stick controls the Y direction of the robot. The X-axis of the right stick controls the X direction, the left trigger controls turning left and the right trigger controls turning right. To change to this mode, change ROBOT_DRIVE_MODE in RobotParams.java to **DriveMode.HOLONOMIC_MODE**.

In addition, there are a few more buttons on the driver gamepad that modify how the robot is driven. Click the right bumper on the driver gamepad will toggle between Robot and Field Oriented driving modes. Our library also supports Inverted driving mode allowing the robot to switch the front and back end. This is useful for a robot that has an end effector such as an intake at the back so that the drivers can drive the robot around as if the intake is in front. Press and hold the left bumper allows you to drive the robot at slow speed. This is useful for delicate movement of the robot.
