## Titan Robotics Framework Library Section
Titan Robotics Framework Library features:
- FtcOpMode: Our own opmode that extends LinearOpMode but providing interface similar to OpMode where you put your code in some sort of loop method. FtcOpMode is a cooperative multi-tasking scheduler. As an advanced feature, our Framework Library also supports multi-threaded true multi-tasking. But for rookie teams who don't want to tackle the gotchas of true multi-tasking, cooperative multi-tasking is the way to go. This allows your autonomous to operate multiple subsystems at the same time instead of doing things sequentially. This is especially important since FTC autonomous period lasts only 30 seconds. In order to perform the maximum number of tasks in the autonomous period, your code would want to perform multiple tasks that have no dependencies on each other and perform them simultaneously. The Framework Library enables that in a trivial manor.
- State machine: The state machine infrastructure is the core of multi-tasking. Each task should use a state machine to keep track of their states. This allows FtcOpMode to switch between tasks and be able to maintain the state of each task when they are resumed from suspended state.
- Task syncrhonization: Some tasks have dependencies on each other. For example, autonomous may want to finish driving the robot to the specified location before dumping the game element to the proper spot. This requires task synchronization. The Framework Library provides a number of task synchronization features such as Events (TrcEvent) and Callbacks (TrcEvent.Callback). Event allows an operation to signal it when the operation is completed so that the task waiting for it can resume. Callback allows a method to be called to perform additional work without the use of a state machine after the operation is completed, for example.
- Timers: The Timer Manager (TrcTimer) manages multiple simultaneous timers. When a timer expires, you have the option of signaling an event or doing an event callback. For example, if you want to spin a motor for 3 seconds and turn it off afterwards, you can arm a timer that expires in 3 seconds and do an event callback to turn the motor off. This type of operation is sometimes called "fire and forget".
- Advanced multi-tasking: In addition to cooperative multi-task, our Framework Library also supports multi-threaded tasks. The Library provides a number of standard threads (i.e. main robot thread and IO thread). The main robot thread runs the FtcOpMode where the scheduler is performing cooperative multi-tasking on the main robot thread. The IO thread handles all input tasks such as reading sensors and odometry and output tasks such as motor and actuator tasks including PID control and pathing. If there is a special need that either requires high frequency processing and cannot afford any latency or a task that takes extra long time to run and thus blocking the thread unnecessarily long, the Library enables you to create STANDALONE tasks that have their own thread. All these tasks/threads are mananged by the Task Manager (TrcTaskMgr). Although everything provided and maintained by the Library are thread-safe, user must still be cautious when writing multi-threading code. Care must be taken to ensure you don't fall into the trap of two common multi-threaded programming woes: shared resource contention and task synchronization. If you don't understand these, it's better not to do multi-threaded multi-tasking and stick only with cooperative multi-tasking. Even with cooperative multi-tasking, you still need to apply some simple disciplines: do not block the main robot thread (i.e. no busy wait loop and sleep statements in your task code). Just start an operation and get out. Do not wait for it to complete. Most of the operations supported by the Framework Library are asynchronous. For a subsystem to support asynchronous operation, it must provide a way to start the operation without blocking and a way to signal/notify the completion of the operation. Calling them will start the operation and the control is returned back to your code immediately. Your state machine should take care waiting for an operation to complete. That's why it's called "cooperative multi-tasking". You must be good citizens for it to work properly.
- Inputs: The Framework Library supports many different input devices such as gamepad controllers, sensors and driver station dashboard.
  - Gamepad controller: The Framework Library monitor all buttons on the gamepad for state changes. Any button presses or releases will result in an event callback to your button event handler. This simplifies your TeleOp code tremendously.
  - Sensors: The Framework Library supports many type of sensors whether they are digital sensors, analog sensors, I2C sensors or even Android built-in sensors, the Library provides access to them. Popular sensors include ultronic sensor, color sensor, distance sensor such as Lidar, gyro, accelerometer, touch sensor, IR seeker and Pixy camera etc. It also supports many underlying communication protocols (e.g. I2C, Serial, SPI etc) so that you can write custom sensor driver code to communicate with sensors that the Library does not have built-in support.
  - Driver station dashboard: The Framework Library provides easy access to the driver station as an input device. It allows you to create Choice Menus (FtcChoiceMenu) or Value Menus (FtcValueMenus) where you can ask the user to provide information before the competition match is started. Information such as whether you are on the RED or BLUE Alliance; which starting position your robot is in; whether your robot should delay starting the autonomous routine to let your alliance partner to go first to avoid potential collision or whether your robot should perform or skip a certain autonomous tasks. The Choice and Value menus form a decision tree that allow the user to select choices or enter values using the gamepad buttons.
- Data Filters and Processors: In the real world, sensors have noises. In some applications, noises are bad for robot control. The Framework Library provides a number of popular data filters (e.g. IIR, Kalman and Spurious filters etc) that will clean up noises on sensor readings. It also provides some data converters such as data integrator. For example, some simple gyro sensors only give you rotational rate but not heading. You must integrate the rotational rate over time to calculate heading. In this situation, the Library provides the data integrator. In some other sensors such as some gyros or compasses, they give you non-contiguous readings when passing through some point such as the REV IMU gyro goes from 179 degrees to -180, or compass goes from 359 degrees back to zero. This non-contiguous values may cause havoc in control algorithms. In this case, the Library provides a converter that can monitor the sensor crossing such points and convert the values into a contiguous scale.
- Outputs: The Framework Library supports many types of output devices such as motors, servo, complex actuators, lights and sound.
  - Motors: Motor is the most fundamental output device on a robot. It provides movements for the robot. FTC SDK provides some basic motor classes (e.g. DcMotor, DcMotorEx). The Framework Library adds a lot more features on top of that in different layers of complexity. For example, it provides FtcDcMotor extending TrcMotor that added support for a digital input sensor to reset the motor encoder automatically (limit switches). This is useful for using the motor in a complex actuator such as an arm or elevator when you may need to zero calibrate the zero position of the actuator using a lower limit switch. It also added support to provide velocity mode control and motor odometry. On top of the fundamental motor features, it also provided PID Controlled functionality. It can support either native motor close-loop control (position and velocity PID control) or software PID control in case some motors do not support native close-loop control (e.g. continuous servos). TrcMotor added support for lower and upper limit switches, motor stall protection for safety, multiple motors with synchronization (motor followers), zero position calibration and gravity compensation. These advanced features made it trivial to implement complex subsystems such as a swing arm or elevator. The built-in PIDF controller allows the arm or elevator to be controlled by an analog joystick to speed up or slow down the arm/elevator movement. It understands the arm/elevator position approaching the lower/upper position limits and will automatically slow down its movement. It also provides stall protection. If the PID Actuator got stuck and the motor is stalled, it can cut motor power to prevent it from burning out. It also allows a reset timeout so that the stall condition can be cleared after a certain period assuming the stall condition is caused by human temporarily. This allows the subsystem to resume its function and provides time for the motor to cool down. In addition, it also supports voltage compensation. It understands battery voltage drop and can compensate the power level sent to the motor.
  - Servos: With the limited number of motors allowed by FTC, servo motors become the secondary important actuator on a robot. The Framework Library provides the basic support of a servo over the FTC SDK (TrcServo). It supports translation between logical servo positions (between the value of 0 and 1) to physical positions such as 0 to 180 degrees. Just like motors, it also allows you to invert the direction of the servo movement. In addition, it also provides features to support multiple servos (followers), continuous servo with optional encoder, lower and upper limit switches. Most importantly, it allows speed controlling a servo motor so you can control a servo by an analog joystick.
  - Light: The Framework Library supports many ways to control lights, usually LEDs. They could be a single LED with just one color, a single RGB LED or a RGB LED strip that is pixel addressable. The LED lights can be controlled by digital output ports or most likely the REV Blinkin LED controller. This is not only for asethetics to make our robot look pretty, it also serves a very practical purpose: providing feedback to drivers on robot status. For example, it can tell you whether robot vision detected the target by changing the LED color on different target positions. The Library not only allows you to lit up LEDs in different colors or different color patterns, it also provides a complex priority scheme in controlling the LEDs. Imagine the robot has many subsystems that want to tell you something. Vision may want to tell you whether it sees the target, intake may want to tell you whether it has taken in a game piece. All these events will cause LED contention (i.e. different subsystems fighting to change the color of the LEDs to show their status). The Library provides a priority scheme (TrcPriorityIndicator) that defines what color pattern has priority over the others so that important events can override lower priority events to show their status. The Library also provides support for LED Matrix Panel. Although it is not really practical for FTC, it is more an FRC feature because of power requirement and also requires custom electronics that FTC may not allow.
  - Sound: The Framework Library supports sound. It used to support sound on the Robot Controller when it was an Android Phone. With the introduction of REV Robot Controller Hub, it no longer provides sound capability. The sound support now gets redirected to the Driver Station. Sound support includes playing a tone or providing text to speech. Sound is an important output device. Just like light, it provides feedback to the drivers on important robot status. For example, if one of the motors is stalled, the Library can cut power to the motor to prevent it from burning out. Sound support can generate a beep to warn the driver about it.
- Drive Base: Our Framework Library provided support for 3 different types of drive bases: Simple Differential Drive Base (TrcSimpleDriveBase), Mecanum Drive Base (TrcMecanumDriveBase) and Swerve Drive Base (TrcSwerveDriveBase). All drive bases have built-in kinematics, odometry and localization support. It means the library can use sensors such as wheel encoders and gyro to keep track of the absolute field location of the robot. It can combine the sensor readings to control the movement of the robot by applying kinematic calculations. It even supports passive-wheel odometry (aka dead-wheel odometry) where it supports 2 to 4 passive omniwheels with encoders to keep track of the absolute field location of the robot. All odometry data can be scaled to real world unit such as inches instead of encoder counts. All drive bases support many advanced features such as stall detection that detects if the drive base is stalled because it runs into an obstacle. This allows the possibility of writing advanced code such as running into the field wall to relocalize the robot location. Running into the field wall causes the drive base to stall which can signal an event to stop the drive base and reset the robot location to a known position. All drive bases provide support for different drive strategies such as tankDrive, arcadeDrive and curveDrive. It also provides support for holonomicDrive for drive bases that have this capability such as Mecanum and Swerve Drive Bases. For holonomic capable drive bases, it also supports field oriented driving where the robot can go in any direction independent of the robot's heading. It also supports Gyro-Assist driving where it uses the gyro to keep the robot driving straight. If the robot has a weight distribution problem or one of the wheels has more friction than the others, the robot won't drive straight. The robot may curve to the left or right. By enabling Gyro-Assist driving, it will use the gyro to maintain a straight heading.
  - Simple Differential Drive Base supports drive bases with 2 to 6 motors. It has left and right sides. Each side can have 1 to 3 motors. Simple Drive Base can only run straight and cannot strafe like Mecanum Drive Bases (i.e. no holonomicDrive support, only differential drive).
  - Mecanum Drive Base has 4 mecanum wheels. Each wheel has its own motor. It is capable of holonomic drive (i.e. strafing).
  - Swerve Drive Base has 4 swerve wheel modules. Each swerve module consists of a drive motor and a steering motor. The steering motor can be a DC motor or a continuous servo motor. Each swerve module on a Swerve Drive Base can be independently steer so that it can run in any direction with the robot heading pointing to a totally different direction.
- Exclusive Subsystem: A robot consists of many subsystems (e.g. drive base, elevator, shooter, intake, vision etc). Most of the subsystems can be operated by human operator in TeleOp mode. However, some subsystems can also be used in auto-assist operations. For example, on the press of a button, the vision-assisted shooter may stop the drive base, acquire a camera image for vision processing, calculate the trajectory for shooting a target, spin the shooter up to shooting speed, pan and tilt the shooter to the correct angles aiming at the target and shoot. The auto-assist operation involves several subsystems while these subsystems can also be operated by human control. Without coordination, human control and auto-assist may fight each other for the control of these subsystems. For example, while auto-assist is tilting the shooter for aiming the target, the tilting mechanism is also controlled by a joystick which is at neutral position. It means teleop code is constantly sending zero power to the tilter while auto-assist is trying to move the tilter. This causes jerky movement of the tilter. With Exclusive Subsystem support, one can declare the tilter as an Exclusive Subsystem. Before auto-assist starts an operation with the Exclusive Subsystem, it must acquire exclusive ownership of the subsystem. Once ownership is acquired, nobody else except the owner can operate the subsystem. This prevents teleop control from interfering with the auto-assist operation. When the auto-assist operation is done, the exclusive ownership of the subsystems will be released so that telop control can be resumed.
- PIDF Control: Aside from supporting motor native close-loop control, our framework library also supports software PIDF control. Our software PIDF controller has a lot of extra features such as iZone in addition to P.I.D.F. It also understands target tolerance, stalling due to steady state error. It understands absolute versus relative target setpoint. It supports options to disallow oscillation (i.e. if the controller overshoots, it will just stop even though it exceeded tolerance). It also supports setting close-loop ramp rate and stall detection for aborting close-loop control hang (i.e. steady state error exceeding tolerance causing close-loop control to wait forever). It also allows setting close-loop control maximum power limits.
- Motor Odometry: Motor odometry keeps track of motor position as well as velocity in real world units (e.g. inches) instead of encoder counts. If the motor does not support native velocity report, our library will calculate the velocity for you. Motor odometry is highly optimized for performance. We support Lynx Bulk Caching mode that guarantee reading motor odometry only once in a robot loop. Our code has built-in performance monitors for debugging performance issues.
- Drive Base Odometry: Our drive base odometry supports both drive motor odometry as well as passive wheel odometry (Passive Odometry Pods). With drive wheel odometry, it reads either drive motor odometry or passive wheel odometry as well as gyro heading to calculate the absolute field location of the drive base.
- Pathing Following: Our library supports Pure Pursuit Drive path following. In addition to the ability of following a pre-planned path, it also allows dynamically generated path. This is very useful for working with vision system that detects target location and can dynamically create a path navigating the robot to the detected target.
- Vision: In every season, the game play usually involves navigating the robot to a certain location marked by objects detectable by vision or the robot is shooting game elements at a target recognizable by vision. Computer vision can have different complexity, ranging from simple color blob detection to full blown neural network machine learning object recognition. Therefore, it is generally computational intensive and could take hundreds of milliseconds to process an image frame. Fortunately, there are industrial vision libraries that take care of the heavy lifting for us. Libraries such as Tensor Flow, AprilTag and OpenCV. Our Framework Library includes support for all these industrial libraries. Some industrial libraries support asynchronous processing of image frames and some do not. For those that don't, they could block our main robot thread for hundreds of milliseconds. But with our Framework Library, we wrap these industrial libraries with easy to use interfaces and provide asynchronous support thus freeing our main robot thread to take care of other tasks. This encapsulation makes it extremely easy to writing vision code.
- Util:
  - Trace logging: In addition of providing information output to the dashboard on the driver station, the Framework Library also provides trace logging mainly for debugging purpose. It is a super important tool allowing post-mortem analysis of the robot performance of a match either for debugging or for performance tuning. Information written to the trace log has different levels that can be adjusted to reduce clutter. The levels are: VERBOSE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR and FATAL. For example, in regular competition match log, we will only turn up to the INFO level at the most. But for debugging, we may turn up to DEBUG or even VERBOSE to see everything.
